
## Setup
- Ensure you have Java installed
- Ensure you have Maven installed and variables set properly
- Clone the repo
- Do a Maven project update
- Ensure you have Appium V2 installed, and it is started on localhost port 4723. 
<br/> To install: ``npm install -g appium@next`` 
<br/> To start server: ``appium``

## Project Structure
- Maven is used to manage all dependencies and the project build. So no need to add any jar file. You may update any dependency version as you please in the pom.xml file.
- TestNG is used as the test management tool
- All tests are extended from a platform base class where desired capabilities are set.
- - TestUtils Package/AndroidBaseTest Extends Appium utils, 
-- 

- Browserstack:
<br/> If running a test on Browserstack, the app has to be uploaded in the App Automate dashboard, and the generated url copied into the the data.properties file

- Local:
<br/>If running a test locally, the device name and app name are saved in the data.properties file. So before you start a local test, you may need to update the device name to what you have
<br/> The app file is placed in the resources folder. If you replaced the app, also ensure the app name is updated in the data.properties file

- Listeners are included in the test utils package to take screenshots and mark test status
- Page Objects are being used as a repository for all the page selectors
- An AppiumUtils file exists in the Utils folder, which keeps frequently used methods
- Tests are supplied with parameters, while a data provider is also included

## Test Execution on Browserstack
If you have Maven installed on your machine, you can execute tests from Terminal with the use of the following parameters:
- -P to state the name of the test suite
- -DAndroidAppVersion (or -iOSAppVersion) to state the app version, 
-  -DBStackAndroidAppUrl to state the uploaded build link on Browserstack. 


- If you want only specific tests to run, state the suite profile with the -P parameter. e.g. : 
<br/> ``mvn test -PAndroidSmokeTests -DAndroidAppVersion=8.0.5 -DBStackAndroidAppUrl=bs://98ff670d38afb178f053d7bec68ffe0ac03d1c82``
<br/> ``mvn test -PAndroidRegressionTests -DAndroidAppVersion=8.0.5 -DBStackAndroidAppUrl=bs://98ff670d38afb178f053d7bec68ffe0ac03d1c82``

- If you prefer to run the test from Eclipse, right click on a test xml file and select Run As > TestNG Suite. This uses all the default parameters set in data.properties, which can also be updated.
- If the tests were executed on Browserstack, the results, recordings and logs will also be available on the App Automate dashboard

## Test Execution on Local
The app to be tested is picked from the AndroidAppName value in the data.properties, which is the app file name in the project
- If you have your device connected and you want the tests to run locally on it, include the environment and device name with the -DEnv & -DAndroidDeviceName parameters respectively. e.g. : mvn test -PAndroidSmokeTests -DEnv=Local -DAndroidDeviceName=Pixel_XL_OS_11 -DAndroidAppVersion=8.0.5.  
- Reports are generated by ExtentReports and available in reports/index.html, which also includes screenshots for failed test cases

## Framework Parameters
- NoReset: False starts a new app session, True restores last app session. Note that this only works for local tests


